So anyway, I agreed to come back on the commission to try to work us through the opening and spend basically a year on it, trying to get it established so that the dream that we had laid out, I think, for a great urban library would continue because we felt we had
done a lot.
You know, we've done two bond issues for the library.
We did Prop E, which basically was a 30 percent increase, plus raising the 35 million, none of which, by the way, the Librarians Guild had not participated in anything like that, any of the elections at all, any of the fundraising.
And so we wanted to see things get started, and then we started running into the trouble
after the library opened, and the big battle over the MOU for private money coming in, because we wanted to launch a fundraising campaign around the branches, because we've got bond money that will allow us to do seismic upgrades, electrical upgrades, and access for the disabled.
But you can't even paint the same place.
You know, you can't put in new bookshelves.
You can't buy new furniture.
You can't use city money for this.
It's all private money.
So we wanted to do a campaign around that, but the MOU fight basically knocked that in the head, and we've not been able to do that.
We've been in sort of a hold position on trying to keep our donors from abandoning us long-term.
The foundation is only a shell of what it was before, and we had, you know, at that point in time, the most successful fundraising campaign in a publicly-run library.
in the country.
So just briefly, you mentioned that you're from Nevada.
You're a state rep there.
How long have you, if you can just give me a very brief biographical, how long did you come to San Francisco?
I spent four terms as a Nevada State Assemblyman representing Reno.
And then I came here in 81.
I worked for Pacific Telephone at that time.
I've been here since then, yeah.
And how old are you, am I telling you that?
I'm 50.
Just turned 50.
Yeah, I'm good.
I'm 54.
Everybody who's younger than me is a kid, as far as I'm concerned.
I can't really.
And the library has been a passion.
I get involved in a lot of charitable work within the city.
I'm involved with the Names Project on a big fundraiser we're doing in late October.
I've got a Project Inform, which is an AIDS database program.
and helping raise money for.
I got an event at Cartier on Friday.
I just came off the Open Hand Board, which is a food program for people with AIDS.
It was on private industry council for job training for the disadvantaged, basically.
I was on that for 10 years.
And I do a lot of... I donate a lot.
Plus, I oversee a lot of the corporations' donation programs.
That's why you see a lot of money coming in.
Pacific Bill underwrote the grand opening of the library.
And how much did Pacific Bill give to the libraries?
Are these public figures, or they don't say anything?
Not really.
We've given several hundred thousand dollars.
That's not a lot.
In the grand scheme of things, it's not.
Not in the grand scheme of things.
But in some cases... It's not like you own the public library, is what I'm saying?
No, it's not like we own the library at all.
I mean, the big donors are the private donors.
It's the Swigs and
And it's not in the millions is what you're telling me.
No, it's not in the millions at all.
We set the, we were having a hard time selling for the opening of the library.
We were trying to get corporate underwriting, and I needed, they'd set a level, and I basically went to the chairman and said, I think we ought to be the underwriter and what have you, and, and he said, okay, and so I was able to go back then to the foundation and say, okay,
We have set the dollar amount.
Now you can go to Bank of America and Levi's and everybody.
We have set the threshold of dollars.
I tried to do that whenever I could.
And that's why you see our name on some of the flags that are still around the city.
Pacific Bell's name at the bottom.
We've had, I mean, I've had corporate donations, for example, the Chevron Team Center,
the Bank of America, Jobs and Career Center, Pacific Bell Foundation underwriting the Children's Electronic Discovery Center.
Those are the three corporate names that are somewhat prominent, although in small signs.
They've been attacked repeatedly.
And some of the union activists are those that are among the most vociferous.
And I sort of look at it and say, you know, we talked Bank of America into giving us
several hundred thousand dollars.
I personally went on the sale of that to the chairman of Bank of America with Charlotte Swig, and we pitched him, and he agreed to give us several hundred thousand dollars.
Did not have any particular interest in what the naming opportunity was, but we gave the same set of lists we did to any donor, and they said, well, we're really interested in
In jobs and careers, you're going to have basically sets of information called the Jobs and Career Center.
We'll take that.
Chevron, we also convinced to give us several hundred thousand dollars.
They had no particular interest in one thing or another.
They looked at the list after they agreed to give us the money and said, we like this idea of a teen center.
You've never done anything in the library before aimed specifically at materials aimed at teenagers.
We think that's cool.
And so we'll put our name on that.
And they have been vilified repeatedly at public hearings by the same clique that you have been talking to, that that is somehow evil, that that is corporate America coming in and using the library for free advertising.
And, I mean, the reality is Bank of America would get a whole lot more advertising hit
out of buying a couple of TV commercials, and they're going to get out of putting their name over and type this big on the ceiling.
I mean, New York probably, there's the Bill Blass room.
See, you know.
Is that... Well, I told you that Jim Hormel was the, you know, the... And he gave 10 million.
Bill Blass, yeah.
Yeah, that's not... No, and it's sort of a, so what?
I mean, that's where I come.
I think we've kept it to a minimum.
I can't get every nickel.
Well, what do I say?
But, I mean, if somebody's willing to give you $10 million, you take for $10 million, and you do something good with it.
Yeah.
I mean, that's, you and I are from the same school on raising money.
But they've heard our fundraising.
So, and it's going to be tough going forward.
I mean, there are other people who are really great.
I mean, I don't know how much you want to get into this, but like Kathy or Sherry Thomas that I mentioned is, you know, head of the foundation.
Martin Paley, who's a wonderful man, who heads the Center for the Common Good over in Berkeley.
He was our first executive director of the foundation, picked by Charlotte Millswig.
He headed the San Francisco Foundation for a number of years, but he was our first big fundraiser.
He's the one, he took some of the ideas on the Gay and Lesbian Center and the minority groups and really came up with the Affinity Group program.
He looked at that as a fundraising opportunity.
I was only looking conceptually at taking our collections out and in communities of interest within the city.
I'd taken it, I did a plan, a paper on that.
and the Gay and Lesbian Center.
And he said, because when we started raising money for the Gay and Lesbian Center, we obviously had a runaway success.
So he then put together, per se, the Affinity Group program around these different collections.
And where did that name, Affinity Group, come from?
They made it up.
I mean, it was people who had a particular affinity of interest.
We did it with, you know, children as well as minority groups, gays and lesbians, and permanents.
People of this particular affinity.
whatever the affinity might be.
So it was a new one.
Listen, we've been going at this for over two hours.
I'm glad we had the opportunity.
I hope you see there is another side to this thing.
I told you I want to explore fully both sides.
When I get back, we'll transcribe these tapes.
But I do have hard feelings on some of these folks.
They have very hard feelings on me.
It's pretty obvious.
There's no question about it.
What do I say?
Huh?
I mean, I don't get paid.
You know, it's by the library.
How long do you plan to do this, by the way?
Oh, this is my last year as president of the commission.
That's my question, yeah.
I've told the commission that I will not serve another year as president.
My term runs to 1999, whether I'll stick around that long.
I want to see a permanent librarian in place who is really strong.
I would love to see most of the problem areas fixed.
and the library is on a roll again, you know, and obviously headed towards success, that our private fundraising and our role within the community is reestablished.
I want to see the affinity groups really take off.
The Gay and Lesbian Center is my personal idea, and I want to see it en route to becoming, you know, an international institution in its own right, someday maybe with its own building.
just like Schomburg's got sitting in Harlem.
I think that's perfectly doable.
Staff laughed at me the first time we chatted about this fundraising privately and the senior staff, Ken's direct reports.
Early on, it was like 88, 89.
And I said, well, this Gay Center, I said, within 10 years of its establishment, it will have more money as an endowment than you have in your annual budget.
And they all laughed like hell.
And nobody laughs at me.
You start looking at the number of wills that we are written into.
Some of the money that's already come in, what one guy gave us, an apartment house, you know, divided up between the gay and lesbian center at the library and I think Reckon Park or something like that.
And that was several hundred thousand dollars.
You know, that's starting to come in now over time.
But we have a contract that we need to meet as far as I'm concerned.
And that is really creating an extraordinary service that has never existed before in the United States.
A gay and lesbian archive that anyone can walk in off the street and have access to.
Not like you've got to go, what did you say, Cornell, I think?
Yeah, a marvelous collection.
A marvelous collection.
They don't call it gay and lesbian, but they call it something.
And it was a very wealthy gay man who was basically
his own extraordinary personal collection, but also funded to grow, and it's curated, and it's, you know... We've got the Randy Schultz collection.
One of the mayor's speechwriters said he was a friend of Randy Schultz, so he set up dinner, and I, it was just down the street, I hauled all of my charts that dealt with the library and stuff we were trying to do at the Gay and Lesbian Center, and over dinner, I went through all the stuff, and he ended it.
Dinner, Randy, this was probably a year before he died, said, uh... I gave you everything I got.
Yeah, that's great.
I think it's called the Human Sexuality Collection.
We've got a couple of filmmakers, sets of stuff.
Gay and Lesbian Historical Society of Northern California has come in with their entire collection, and a guy donated money for the Historical Society to hire a staff person to manage their materials and catalog it in a way that will be useful to the library.
Everything is not done.
We're still in our infancy.
But we have done the beginning work to create, you know, a gay chamber.
And I want to see that happen because I see that as something that would be really important to my community long term, creating an intellectual resource and looking at how it can tie together as a point of bringing together maybe gay and lesbian study departments at colleges around the country.
Certainly the gay and lesbian
study group at San Francisco State, and some of their people were very involved in some of our discussions.
Did Hormel and Ginsberg stuff get out of Stanford?
They went to Stanford, yeah.
We couldn't compete.
They were looking for a million bucks.
A million bucks, and they'd been in discussions for a long time.
Would have loved to have seen it come here.
We are in, you know, the Foundation has just appointed its Hormel Advisory Committee.
The letter I just sent to Gina today
said, we need to figure out what we're going to do on our side to match that.
How do we interface with that?
I've asked Gina, and she's agreed.
She's going to do a series of meetings between the affinity group leaders and Gina and the staff in the library up and down the ranks that deals with that collection.
So maybe in some cases be the same people because a lot of it is considered part of the way they're organized now under special collections.
Over time, I think that should change.
But I want a dialogue between, you know, the chief of the main library, the head of special collections, the person who's assigned to work with a particular affinity group, a couple of librarians that stock books in there, the pages that stock books in there.
I want to get them all together in the same room, and I want them all just to talk.
I think that will go miles towards getting over what some people claim is a fear
that outside people are going to come in and tell them what to do.
And the affinity groups have not said they're going to tell anybody what to do, but they would like to be listened to.
We've had, and some of the stuff, we're going from an attitude of scarcity, which is both in information as well as money, where librarians figure, well, we have no money.
We couldn't manage that.
You know, so they've turned down collections.
And we've come back and say, why would you turn that down?
We'll raise the money.
privately to do that.
But then you also have that money to maintain it, to curate it.
Maintain it.
Well Gay and Lesbian Center is going to be your example.
We had a $1.6 million goal, and we raised over $3 million.
So it's endowed, one hopes.
The endowment has started, but we hadn't decided what to do with it.
The money is sort of sitting there.
The library didn't even know how to ask us for money.
They didn't know what to ask us for on that.
And we didn't have the process set up.
The process is now in place.
I tried to set up an advisory group program with the library
I don't know, six years ago or so.
Because we do it in the company.
That's part of what I do here within the company.
I think it works wonderfully.
Sit down with people.
I think Wednesday when I go in there, I'll have to take the electrical and make it a point to really see the gate.
Yeah, do that.
See what they're doing.
Listen, I've got a 7 o'clock.
You know, I've enjoyed it.
Allow me the option to call you at some point.
follow up in anything.
I mean, I'm not going to play ping pong either.
No, I mean, there's no point in it.
There are different points of view.
Yeah, and really, people want me to look at tons of shit, you know.
I mean, there's only so much stuff you can...